---
title: "Rapid Application Development"
date: 2023-02-13
---

Rapid Application Development (RAD) disrupted the traditional model of developing software. Instead of having extensive documentation, it proposed to produce only the bare necessary encouraging self-documenting code. Where there were comprehensive requirement studies, the suggestion was to send prototypes for review by the actual end-users of the prospective system. It recommended abandoning the practice of developing software from scratch in favour of relying on trusted third party components. The developers started embracing it due to the fact that this new paradigm allows more time to build things as opposed to working on lengthy documents as deliverables.

Decades later and after many improvements to the software development process, now the industry talks about declarative programming, low-code and no-code approaches, and even using artificial intelligence to produce code - each step increasing the velocity of development and lowering barriers to entry into the field.

Though a question may arise whether certain benefits of the traditional process were lost due to lack of in-depth documentation or the phased approach, a careful inspection will reveal that it is not the case. All the salient features of the former days are still there but have been miniaturised to foster accelerated delivery of smaller increments so that the true value of software is visible - malleability.

#softwareengineering

---
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:share:7030931813141217280/)