---
title: "Mutation"
date: 2023-03-08
---

Despite being the most famed, test-driven development (TDD) is not the only test-oriented development methodology. While shunned, test-last development is still a viable option and drastically better than not having tests at all. The test-first approach can be considered as a prelude to TDD or a lighter variation of the same since it only focuses on the red and green phases but not the refactoring phase of the usual TDD cycle.

Regardless of the exact implementation, all test-oriented approaches have one common factor - similar to the analogy from the accounting domain, the code gets added twice - once on the test side and once on the production code side. It is common knowledge that the addition of code to two places makes it easy to assure the correct functionality of the production code.

While passing tests indicate that the functionality of the production code is correct, the converse is not implied. In short, there is no guarantee that correct logic in the production code is the reason behind passing the tests. For that claim to be made, evidence for the correctness of the tests is necessary.

One way to assert the adequacy of tests is to employ mutation testing. It is a tool-assisted technique that automatically mutates production code and executes all tests against it. If all such mutants get killed (i.e. cause failures in one or more tests), but the original one survives (i.e. passes all tests), then it is discernable that the tests are sufficient to detect the accuracy of the business logic.

_Note: This technique is named mutation testing to resemble the natural evolution and the survival of the fittest._
 
#softwareengineering #testing 

---
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:share:7039260785411264512)